#summary Instructions and check list for making a new release.
#labels Developer

= Howto Release =

A mostly sequential recipe of the actions involved in forging a new release. 

== Before releasing ==

 * Run the test suite and test general use cases: initialization, status, commit, etc.

 * Update the [News] page to mention noteworthy changes. It should list the fixed issues, labeled with [http://code.google.com/p/nbgit/issues/list?q=label:Milestone-ReleaseX.Y Milestone-ReleaseX.Y].

 * Synchronize javahelp files with wiki pages, i.e. [News] and [http://code.google.com/p/nbgit/w/list?q=label:Manual Manual] pages. Commit.

== The release ==

 * Update the version number and commit. The list of files include:
   * `manifest.mf`
   * `settings.xml` and `wstcref.xml` in `src/org/nbgit/resources`

 * Tag the commit:
{{{
git tag -s nbgit-X.Y
}}}
 The message title should read something like `nbgit X.Y`. Optionally, include the list of noteworthy changes in the message body.

 * Create a zip file:
{{{
git archive --format=zip --prefix=nbgit-X.Y/ HEAD > nbgit-X.Y.zip
}}}

 * Build a .nbm file with reduced dependencies:
   * Update and checkout the [http://github.com/jonas/nbgit/tree/jf/versioning-util jf/versioning-util] branch
   * Merge in `master`.
   * Fix any problems: Usually missing code from the versioning.util module.
   * Commit.
   * In NetBeans build the .nbm.
   * Rename build/org-nbgit.nbm to nbgit-X.Y.nbm.

 * Upload the zip and nbm files to the [http://code.google.com/p/nbgit/downloads/entry download page]. Apply labels about Type, NetBeans version, etc., as well as the *Featured* label.

== After the release ==

 * Remove Feature label from downloads related to the previous release.

 * The status of issues marked with [http://code.google.com/p/nbgit/issues/list?q=label:FixPending FixPending] are changed to *Fixed*.

 * If they do not already exist, create the labels NbGit-X.Y and Milestone-ReleaseX.(Y+1) in [http://code.google.com/p/nbgit/adminIssues the issue tracker].

 * Post a release announcement to the Google Group.

 * Upload the nbm to [http://plugins.netbeans.org/PluginPortal/faces/PluginDetailPage.jsp?pluginid=13221 the NetBeans Plugin Portal].

 * Announce the release on other sites: [http://freshmeat.net/projects/nbgit/ Freshmeat].