#summary What options control the behavior of nbgit.
#labels Manual

= Module and Repository Options =

This section documents the various options that control how git works. All the options are configurable via either the _Tools > Options_ dialog (referred to as the _options dialog_) or the _Git > Properties_ dialog (referred to as the _properties dialog_). The options dialog is generally where default values can be set, and the properties dialog allows repository-specific values to be configured. Repository-specific values are stored in each repositoriy's configuration file (`.git/config`).

=== User Identity ===

All users should take the time to tell git what user identity should be used when committing. The user identity consists of:

 * Full Name, e.g. `Random J. Developer`
 * Email Address, e.g. `user@example.org`

From these options the user identity will become `Random J. Developer <user@example.org>`.

The name and email address can be set via both the options and properties dialogs. For repository configuration git options: `user.name` and `user.email` are used.

=== Commit Options ===

Some open-source projects require that developers sign off on their patches as a way of showing good faith. If you contribute to such a project, the option to automatically append a Signed-off-by line can be of assistance. The line is inserted if there are no previous commit messages. Values configure via the properties dialog are stored using the name `nbgit.signoff`.

=== Update Options ===

When reverting a file to a previous version, you can optionally choose to save the modified file using the prefix `.orig`. The default setting can be set in the options dialog and customized in the revert dialog.